## Kendo UI Grid

In this chapter you will modify the scaffolded grid code to further customize the grid's appearance. Additionally, you'll be incorporating the grid into the Team Efficiency Dashboard's main view.

### Configuring Kendo UI Grid Options

As you may have noticed in the scaffolding wizard, the Grid is a versatile component with many options. The options for the grid are set using the server-side HTML wrapper. Take a close look at the code generated by the Scaffolder in `/Views/Invoices/Index.cshtml`, below is a breakdown with additional comments of what each configuration method is used for. Also make note that the fluent API chain can be extended to include further options, and there is no strict order in which the options are defined.

        @(Html.Kendo().Grid<KendoQsBoilerplate.Invoice>() // Kendo UI Grid Wrapper
            // Name, also HTML elements "id" attribute
            .Name("grid")
            // Grid column bindings
            .Columns(columns =>
            {
                columns.Bound(c => c.CustomerName);
                columns.Bound(c => c.OrderDate);
                columns.Bound(c => c.ProductName);
                columns.Bound(c => c.UnitPrice);
                columns.Bound(c => c.Quantity);
                columns.Bound(c => c.Salesperson);
            })
            // Toolbars
            .ToolBar(toolbar => {
                    toolbar.Excel();
                    toolbar.Pdf();
            })
            // Enable Paging
            .Pageable()
            // Enable Sorting
            .Sortable(sortable => {
                sortable.SortMode(GridSortMode.SingleColumn);
            })
            // Disable Scrolling
            .Scrollable(scrollable => scrollable.Enabled(false))
            // Datasource configuration
            .DataSource(dataSource => dataSource
                .Ajax()
                // Read method action and controller
                .Read(read => read.Action("Invoices_Read", "Invoice"))
            )
        )

> TIP: If you find the comments above useful, feel free to copy them into your project. Comments are completely valid inside the Fluent API chain.

<h4 class="exercise-start">
    <b>Exercise</b>: Modify the Grid's Name property
</h4>

**Change** the grid's **Name** from `"grid"` to `"EmployeeSales"`. This is an important step since the Name property of all UI for MVC wrappers set the *id* attribute of the rendered Kendo UI widget.

Find the `.Name` method and change the value from `"grid"` to `"EmployeeSales"`

	@(Html.Kendo().Grid<KendoQsBoilerplate.Invoice>()
	      .Name("grid")
		  ...
	)

The resulting code should be

    @(Html.Kendo().Grid<KendoQsBoilerplate.Invoice>()
	      .Name("EmployeeSales")
		  ...
	)

<div class="exercise-end"></div>

Now add the EmployeeSales grid to the Dashboard page `/Home/Index.cshtml`. To keep things tidy, add the grid to the Dashboard as a child action using `Html.Action` in the `/Home/Index.cshtml` view. This will keep the grid's view and controller code separate and easy to find.

<h4 class="exercise-start">
    <b>Exercise</b>: Add the Grid to the Dashboard
</h4>

Ensure the application's layout is not repeated, set the `Layout` of the view to `null`. Skipping this step will result in duplicate scripts which could cause the page to load improperly.

At the top of `/Views/Invoices/Index.cshtml` **add**

	@{ Layout = null;}

The resulting code should be:

	@{ Layout = null;}
    @(Html.Kendo().Grid<KendoQsBoilerplate.Invoice>()
	      .Name("EmployeeSales")
		  ...
	)

**Add** the grid as a child action. Open `/Home/Index.cshtml` and locate the `<!-- Invoices -->` placeholder and replace it with the child action `@Html.Action("Index","Invoice")`

	<!-- Invoices -->
    @Html.Ipsum().table(5, 3, "d,t,n", new { @class = "table table-striped table-bordered" })

The resulting code should be:

    <!-- Invoices -->
	@Html.Action("Index","Invoice")

**Run** the project and visit the dashboard page `/Home/Index` in the browser. Take a moment to interact with the grid's sorting, paging, and exporting features.

<div class="exercise-end"></div>

Currently the data in Grid column `Order Date` is verbose and should look something like *Mon Aug 25 1997 00:00:00 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)*. This isn't very user-friendly, let's change that.

The grid's data can easily be formatted by adding the `.Format` property chain to any column. Use the Date Format `MM/dd/yyyy` on the `OrderDate` column using the `.Format` method.

<h4 class="exercise-start">
    <b>Exercise</b>: Customize the Order Date column formatting.
</h4>

You can keep the application running while performing this exercise.

**Open** '/Views/Invoice/Index.cshtml' and find the `OrderDate` column property.

    columns.Bound(c => c.OrderDate);

**Set** the `OrderDate` column's `Format` property to `"{0:MM/dd/yyyy}"` to apply the format to the column.

The resulting code should be:

	columns.Bound(c => c.OrderDate).Format("{0:MM/dd/yyyy}");

**Refresh** the application to see the formatting changes take place. Notice the `OrderDate` column is now much easier on the eye.

<div class="exercise-end"></div>

While interacting with the grid you may have noticed that all of the records are being pulled from the database. Don't worry, as we progress through the next several chapters that will change as you learn how to work with Kendo UI and datasources on the client side. First, let's setup some additional UI elements to provide a source for filtering data.
